[Music]
welcome back to the small business
matters podcast I'm so thrilled about
today's guest and what we're going to be
talking about the first time I met Pam
didner I just listened to her talk about
AI at the B2B exchange conference in
Scottsdale Arizona just prior to the
pandemic that was just over four years
ago and a lot has changed open AI with
chat GPT Claude and Google Gemini
and other popular AI tools are now
considered
mainstream Palam is a Powerhouse in the
marketing World she's not just a
marketing expert she's a problem solver
a digital Enthusiast and a lover of all
things Tech with a rich background in
B2B marketing Pam is a much sought-after
keynote speaker and trainer for B2B
marketing
teams she's the host of a popular
podcast B2B marketing and more where she
dives into marketing strategies and
trends that shape modern business
Pam's also the acclaimed author of three
insightful books effective sales
enablement the modern AI marketer and
Global content marketing each book is a
treasure Trove of knowledge offering
practical advice and Cutting Edge
strategies for marketers everywhere Pam
welcome to the small business matters
podcast thank you so much for having me
Gary I love your voice it's so soothing
I mean I was listening to it I was like
oh my God this is it makes me relax and
on the other hand my voice it just have
this like you know it's like a
bulldozzer I tend to overwhelms people
oh well that's very nice of you to say
and and and I wouldn't uh I wouldn't say
that about you because uh as I've seen
you present I mean you you're you're
just a a really great communicator and
also consistent um content creator and I
think that's really what it's about in
our game is always being out there with
with um uh insightful information
helpful information um now you've been
in marketing for quite some time what
what sparked your interest in Ai and and
how did you start integrating it into
your marketing strategy yeah that's
actually a great question and uh I think
um I the first time I heard about AI was
back in 1997 long time ago it's
basically when uh IBM has this machine
called de blue I think think you
probably know that and is kind of like a
chess machine that actually be the human
chess master I don't know his name Gary
kasparova I think that's the remember so
they actually had multiple different
games I think in 1996 in
1997 and uh of course machine did a
fantastic job and I was like oh my God
one day one day this machine is going to
do a whole lot more I don't know what
that is but it's going to happen
happened so that's how it got
started and uh to answer your question
the second question how did I start
integrating it into say overall
marketing strategies or implementation
just like you said earlier um in
November 2022 uh open AI launched chat
gbt that literally just took the World
by storm I think a lot of us are using
chat gbt to uh get our questions
answered
and also uh find a way to leverage that
to say to make our marketing a little
easier you know for example writing
email and or uh ID a uh with uh AI about
some of the campaign ideas so when you
ask AIS about questions because they
search the whole internet it tends to
give you its best answer it may not be
right 100% at a time but it helps
tremendously when it bu just one
tailored answer to you yes I agree and I
I've been dabbling myself I mean I
started using chat GPT actually actually
using Jasper um which was JIS before
yeah I'm a little old school I i' I got
dabbling in in uh in Jarvis and Jasper
and introduced it around the
business uh and then people were like oh
this is really interesting this this
saves us some productivity yeah but uh
it being a you know I'm a writer you
know I like to write my own content I
I've been kind of in Two Worlds you know
since it's come out
um and it's good for the ideation side
of things I think uh it really helps me
with some subject lines you know you can
test different subject lines and titles
and
optimizing uh blog post but uh uh I'm
literally setting some own personal uh
limits what are some
common misperceptions about AI that that
small businesses should be aware
of so um there are several things I want
to share with everyone uh you know the
artificial intelligence obviously uh is
artificial intelligence and it is
trained it because it was trained by
human feeding massive amount of data to
it so they only know what they know kind
of like humans we only know what we know
right so they are they only know what it
was trained for so the data sets that
fee into AI is very very important and
uh you have to understand it also have a
bias like us and not every single answer
provided by AI is what I call perfect
and you need to have a point of view so
AI has a bias you need to have a point
of view to know that you know you can
gauge the answer they provide it and uh
number the last one is AI doesn't know
your business you do and you need to
make sure that when you use AI you don't
use it blindly and have a view have a
point of view about it and then know
that what to take what not to take it's
kind of like what you said Gary you so
you are a writer so you've been writing
for a long period of time and you know
what good writing is you also know what
writing is more kind of like a business
writing you also know when you write for
your clients what clicks what make your
target audience clicks or not click and
having that point of view is very very
important when you say you set
boundaries I think what you meant is you
have a specific point of view like when
AI write something you will look at it
and say I don't think so right and you
modify you edit it as you see fit and
that I think that is the mindset you
need to have when you work with AI yeah
yeah I agree put put your own
fingerprints on on your work and you
know someone that's that really uses AI
I've seen use AI Smart in a smart way is
Scott Galloway for his um newsletter uh
really a great yeah a a great newsletter
that he does U on the weekends uh no
mercy No Malice and some he'll get into
a bit of Storytelling in that um he did
one on AI but he actually talked about
um the uh oh the um the Lites and uh
destroying weaving machines because they
thought that that was going to put all
of the uh texture work uh textile
workers out of out of business back in
the day but he'll he'll start with that
story and give you know do some research
on the Lites and then weave that into
what he wants to say about
yeah yeah yeah very nice and AI cannot
do that for you if AI want to write the
opening and uh it's just probably WR a
very common opening or very
business-like opening but there's no
Personal Touch to it yeah yeah so the
title of your book The Modern AI
marketer suggests a transformative
approach to marketing can you share a
pivotal moment when you realized AI was
going to change the game for
marketers um that's a great Point first
of all the book was written uh before
Chad gbt became popular so it was
written in 2019 it's a bit dated and I
mean the process rewriting it and uh I
think um when I realized it uh really
have
um impact on marketing is I was looking
at how Amazon and all how Google
actually use AI so way back then like
you know I would say in 2015 2016 saying
or even earlier that the the using
algorithm to provide personalized uh
recommendation like Amazon does all the
time right you purchase this therefore
you might be interested in that and you
watch this films therefore you might be
interested in that I think things got me
interested uh was way back in terms of
recommendation and also in terms of how
Google continuously optimized is search
that will try to anticipate that the
phrases that you will say when you type
into a Google search that's also kind of
like uh artificial uh intelligence in
training but they are but that's more
kind of Enterprise usage and that was
not widely available to consumers or
users common users like us and of course
the open
AI CH gbt open that door for everyone
yeah
data plays a crucial role in Ai and and
saying garbage in garbage out how can
how can a small business ensure that
they're collecting and utilizing data
effectively to feed their AI tools and
and get the best results because it's
it's it's gone beyond just putting it a
text prompt you can you can put
spreadsheets of data in there now and
and have it analyzed and uh what what
what should a small business owner be
thinking of there in terms of data
you know I think
um this is a problem honestly that every
single business encounter is not just uh
small
businesses yeah if you can take a a
spreadsheets worth of information and
then upload it to an AI application and
have them do analysis for you fantastic
or even write a summary of that uh that
analysis or you can just uh get a bunch
of us uh data and dump into Ai and and
ask specific questions have done du
analysis from my perspective the most
important thing is you need to make sure
that your data is clean and uh this is
an issue that every single marketer
encounter including
myself I have uh I you know I encourage
people to subscribe to my
newsletters however how often do I clean
that newsletter
database how often do I enrich that
database with the latest information
that can be associated with the people
that subscribe to my
newsletter I I think the most important
thing for any businesses including small
businesses is if you have a limited
amount of data sets and uh you and it
can be captured in Excel or in database
and and um yeah you use AI to do further
analysis everybody can do that but how
do you make sure that data set or that
quality of data is being uh kept up to
dat that will be something that we all
have to take into consideration if you
want to use AI for further analysis but
I it may included honestly I'm just
using myself as an example I'm not doing
a very good job of that so that's
something that I think moving forward
will be faced by every single business
yeah well and I think also when it comes
to personalizing campaigns uh if you've
if you've been uh diligent and and
disciplined about like you said
appending uh data to your email list and
and just just getting um whether it's
male or female followers or or
subscribers and doing you know you
wouldn't do you know a a clothing or a
fashion um Pro you know type of story or
promotion um to to males you know if
it's if it's women's fashion um so yeah
so it's a great point and and also I
think because third party cookies are
going to be going away or being phased
out I think the marketers themselves
really have to take some responsibility
in in gathering that information on the
front end would you agree
yes I do in fact I when you mentioned
about cookie at that time I was thinking
I want to talk about first party
data so you brought a very very good
point and uh just for all of you
watching or listening obviously the
first party data is the data you collect
yourself directly from users in a very
simple
term and uh not just with the party uh
I'm sorry not just with cook are going
away like Gary indicated is is your
ability to collect the first party
information directly from user and you
you always have to make assumption that
your user are going to give you kind of
like more accurate informations but do
you know how many times when I look at
information I know it's it's the user
just doesn't want me to know uh his or
her first name you know they just attach
the last name and leave the first name
field empty and then with that being
said when you gather that information
there's already one field of information
missing and the question is what can you
do as a marketer to gather that piece of
information moving forward a lot of
information that we're going to gather
from our customers you have to earn it
you know they they want to get something
in order to give you something that's
assume they want to give
right so what are you going to do to get
that information and hopefully the
information they provide to you as a
first party data is also accurate and I
think that would be the challenge that
the marketers will encounter in the
future which is just like you indicated
and um with that being said we have to
work harder when I say harder is like oh
you know it's like we working longer
hours that's not the point it's working
harders in terms of like we have to
think how can we get that information
but at the same time you know that is
not intrusive to our user and provide
the information or uh relevant
information that they need and there's a
fine balance I think every single
marketers is going to deal with that in
the future me included yeah so AI can
help all kinds of small businesses or or
canid if I mean if if my business was a
typewriter repair shop
I'm sure an Handley would be raising her
hand to to do do business with that
person but perhaps a hair salon can can
AI still help these kinds of businesses
to
grow I I think so and I it it so uh
let's think about it you know if you are
uh small businesses and uh say you are
typewriter repair shop or even you are
hair salon and um you have to think
through through in terms of what kind of
uh customer experience you want to
provide to your
customers let's assume that you are you
don't have the
website and uh everybody comes to you is
still water the mouth and you don't have
a digital pres but your business is Boom
uh booming not just because everybody
love you and then you then everything is
manual right the whole process manual
and the communication tend to be in
person so you have to think through in
terms of how you communicate with your
audience and also how you get your name
out once you understand that process it
doesn't matter is manual it doesn't
matter it's digital you have a solid
understanding how that works and then
you can determine how AI can help you is
that helpful I'm not answering your
question directly yeah more is less like
understand how your business Works once
you identify that process and you can
articulate that very clearly then you
can see like how AI can help you that's
number one number two go ahead Sor go
ahead no I didn't mean to interrupt oh
it's totally okay and uh for example um
I do actually have a uh a a doctor that
I go on a regular basis and uh giving
and I have a minor skin problem so it's
dermatologist
and for this specific doctor is
obviously a small business and serve the
local area and um it's one doctor and uh
and the one uh receptionist and the
receptionist serves as a nurse as well
so the they it's it's actually a fairly
decent Siz of business he has a lot of
patients but there's only two people
that's it from my perspective that's
amazing and he got the proc down so um
when our communication is always through
text right it's like the the meeting the
appointment confirmations through text
and then uh appointment reminders
through text even his um like
instruction like what kind of ointment I
should use and the where to get it and
how the frequency of it it's through
text and so I can tell that everything
is very digital for him and but it's
very interesting that uh when I respond
like uh appointment like say oh yes I
will I'll come tomorrow I will yes but
there's a three standard email honestly
uh three standard email like you Des
send it to
everybody but he can obviously use AI to
personalize that if he chooses to
because he's already have a process
workflow build up now he just have to
Source uh possibly another tool or
looking at the tools that he's using
right now and see if there's AI feature
that he can turned down right so look at
your workflow and look at what you do
and then determine how you want to use
AI to help and uh the best way to do is
looking at your existing tools and see
if they have ai features associated with
it and then leverage that as much as you
can as a starting point very good so
you've been following AI for some time
what's been the most surprising
development for Market or marketing use
case that you've
seen um it's actually not necessarily so
I want to share with you it's not
necessarily a marketing case study and
uh first uh sorry this is not like a
marketing case study uh but I thought
when I read this specific article I was
like completely in a so um Microsoft has
this AI tool okay well actually many uh
Enterprises do they work with other
Enterprises so um like the lithium
batteries and uh the materials of
building the battery and um um is is
limited and uh for the Enterprises and a
lot of scientists are thinking about
finding a new materials for um the
lithium battery but according to the
Microsoft AI tool there are 30 million
like you know theoretical
materials that can be used or substitute
but if you think about it because that's
30 Millions if just a human has to go
through that it's going to take months
and
years so Microsoft AI tool was able to
actually narrow the 30 million uh
materials option to 18 in just 80 hours
and I was like whoa this is amazing
that's
incredible and and that's where they oh
my God this is awesome this is to me
from my perspective like AI at the best
best
light and so that is something from my
perspective that caught me by surprise
in terms of how far AI can do for a
scientific
research and uh I personally think if we
use AI or predicted model correctly and
uh feed them with a high quality data
set um what marketing can do is really
can uh can really uh dial up that
personalization type of a communication
with our prospects and I think that's
probably the ultimate Nirvana uh all the
marketers would like to accomplish but
it still requires a lot of work at our
end to make that happen so you're a
prolific content creator in your
marketing business how are you using AI
to maintain such high visibility for
your
consultancy you know that's actually a
great question so Gary before I answer
that question let me let me ask you a
question how do you use AI to maintain
such a high visibility for uh your
content creation what do you do yeah
well I can share that uh I come up with
ideas for blog posts um I look at uh
topics that we've written uh about and
we do a gap analysis on okay competitors
to see what our competitors have written
about where we we may have got some gaps
there um I use it for outlines for talks
that I'm going to uh give you know I can
whip up an outline for uh podcast I mean
if I were to be completely honest this
podcast that we're doing here you know I
fed your bio into it and and I asked it
what what are some questions that that
would be good to ask Pam and I've done
this with other um guests on the show
and I I know it's um I just want to make
sure that uh we have a good interview
and we ask some substantive questions
you know I totally versus soft balls you
know so th those are some of the things
I I've been using yeah I love it so we
follow kind of similar path and um I use
uh chbt or even gemini or co-pilot I use
all sorts of say uh thei chap Bots
because I want to test them out and then
then see the results if you will so I do
whenever I write something and I was
like um you know this is a very rough
draft I will kind of fee into the AI and
I was like rewrite you know and see if
they do a better job than me or not and
of course a lot of time they
do sometimes they don't sometimes they
don't so you were talking about building
like a outline for your presentation
using AI interesting enough I have I
don't have a huge success on that I
guess that just because the way I think
about how I want to speak and how I want
to do the opening and also ending and I
usually give a lot of Stu thoughts about
the opening and the ending and uh I have
tried to use AI to come up with opening
and ending it tend to be very ad dull if
you will so I have not had a huge
success using
that and the other thing I use is uh
there is a tool I'm not here to
promoting any tools and I'm not
affiliated with them it's called Opus
clip and uh it's basically you can just
uh enter the link of your YouTube or
just any kind of Tik Tok uh link it will
do uh a shorts for you and I know there
are other tools out there can do exactly
the same thing and so I've been using op
clip just want to see if AI can do a
bunch of shorts for me based on my long
form content and I can tell you the
results are mixed and uh they will
usually give me uh probably about s to
12 short
examples and um it still require humans
editing to to make sure that it's very
professional yeah you I'm saying so the
the the the cutting or the editing of
the long form video it's fine but I
don't think it's at the prime time yet
and for example I using opas clip and
they come up with 10 12 examples I have
to personally kind of uh watch them and
uh at the same time you I my video
editors still need to do some editing
yeah there's a convenience to it like
for example the
cash you can add that in no time and
that you can modify you can edit they do
actually have editing tools within the
platform that was good but it still
require human touch you still have to
touch it right it's not 100% automatic
yeah so yeah I've heard I've heard some
good things about Opus clip and uh
getting those shorts out there because I
I think you know the short form content
that's been very good for us um we use
uh descript I I still do the edits uh on
the main video for the podcast in in
Premiere but once I've got a um a
finished uh edit uh I can put that into
descript and that generates the
transcript for me they're billing that
AI I don't know if if if transcription
software is truly AI um but the thing
that I like about um descript is that
you can ask it to write some social
posts about that content you can ask it
different questions about it um but um
also you can apply those templates the
short form video templates to it and
that takes multicam output like what
we're doing here with with ecam and uh
do the camera changes so it it does save
time but uh I think you do have to be
Discerning on on what it is that you're
putting out there and and and trying to
put a really juicy uh short form clip
you know with a really great Salient
point so um well I thought it would be
fun for us to to finish maybe with a
quick lightning round um we'll go
through a few of these if you have time
uh chat gbt chat gbt or
Claude uh chat gbt for me
actually by the way can I I know he's
lighting I also like
claw well well Mike STS there he swears
by Claude he he told me all about Claude
and and I've been using that too so yeah
I'm using so I using both in
interchangeably like for example easy
writing I tend to go to chat gbt a
little bit more complex writing I tend
to go to claw so I use it a little bit
differently yeah you know one one thing
that Claude did for me once um I fed I
was going to do a webinar and I wanted
to know what industries um the folks
were were in because I didn't have the
you know a lot of data handy other than
just the email addresses yeah so I had
it strip out the domain names of the the
companies and I just asked it I said
tell me what industry each of these
companies is and it I created a cross
Tab and a chart showing all of the
industry that were going to be and the
percentage of audience that were trade
wow they it figures out that's amazing
yeah and it it did it with with very
little effort I mean it it was um maybe
the whole thing ran in less than 60
seconds um yeah so and but I tried to do
it in chat GPT and it it wouldn't do it
and uh but um it's interesting um
there's a tool I'm using called Magi is
m a AI yes I've heard
so they actually um they put all the uh
LMS into kind of like uh the friend
which is the the friend user interface
and uh you can choose which uh which one
you want to use you want to use Gemini
use Facebook's Lama you want to use
Claude you want to use um say Chad gbt
you can choose which one you want to use
and then you can enter your prompts and
then you can see what they come up with
so I've been using Magi which is m a Ai
and then just tested you know because
they build a user interface already and
that you can access basically any
different you know large language models
and I just try it different uh different
LM and see what kind of results that I
get yeah yeah we we we got to leave the
a link to that in the description for
the show that's a good one um what what
about podcasts what's the best AI
podcast for marketers
uh you know the the meong which is the
marketing uh AI Institute and by po roer
is tend to be pretty good and uh they
did a fantastic job from my perspective
yeah great will AI be more
transformative than the printing
press oh totally I think printing press
was very trans transformative at that
time and uh but AI look at AI is in
every everything everything we do you
buy something on Amazon there's a
recommendation coming to you you listen
to a music and there's a Spotify will
tell you and what else you should listen
you when you drive ways is that is tell
you which route to take and uh and uh my
husband listens actually search online
and then uh and say oh yeah you know
what um Google said or uh the
recommendation said we should go to that
restaurant we literally listens to
AI like um almost every single second if
you think about it yeah so I think that
it's it's definitely uh very uh ex ex uh
expansive and also uh that weave into
our daily lives more than we think and
realize should I use AI uh an artificial
video presenter or film myself like a
lot of people use you know Avatar or
this uh synthetic um type of uh figure I
I Gary can you imagine like moving
forward like 10 year two years down the
world it doesn't have to be 10 like when
we have an interview like we don't
interview each other is actually AI
Gary's AI talking to Pam's AI oh no well
maybe maybe it'll be a little better
better looking you know maybe maybe Take
5 10 pounds off I mean that's that's the
the draw for for me Gary you look
fabulous I wouldn't worry about it oh
seriously it's it's such a
transformative time and it really feels
like in real time that uh everything is
changing all at once yeah what's your
prediction for how AI will transform
Marketing
in
20 2034 in the next 10 years
oh my God I hate prediction Gary you put
me on the H SE um
I it it really depends on you know like
open AI they were talking about to
develop like a a uh humanoid you know
like a a physical form of robots not
just like this software embedded into
your computer or your mobile devices so
can you imagine and that that there is a
humanoid but is that do marketing
functions it's not just like okay they
are doing a daily tasks uh but they
actually can perform uh marketing
functions like a physical
form that is something I feel uh it's
going to change uh marketing
forever but if just still part of
embedded into kind of computer or the
devices it's basically software right if
they are just software inside and there
are things they can do for us but they
are they don't have a physical form like
you and me to take over to manually move
uh things from one place to another and
that that means the the ai's
contribution to marketing is still very
limited yeah but if there's a physical
form then that's a completely different
story and conversation
another conversation Pam as a fellow
marketer an AI curious person I'm
feeling less anxious about using it in
my business tell our audience where they
can learn more about you and and where
they can reach out to work with you in
some way great uh pam.com if you are
interested in terms of the services I
offer and pam.com is a great uh place to
get to know me and I'm also very active
on all social media channels like Gary
indicated
so connect with me on
LinkedIn um YouTube I have a YouTube
channel if you want to subscribe to
learn more about B2B marketing and I'm
also active on Tik
Tok awesome stuff um thanks thanks very
much for your generous responses to
those questions and thanks for taking
time out to come on small business
matters thank you so much for having me
[Music]